---
title: "alias \"productivity app\""
categories:
  - cpp
tags:
  - cpp
  - alias
  - opensource
  - productivity-app
---


# What

Alias is an app I started long long time ago, with some intentions in mind, which changed (some of them) in the last years.
The app is currently intended to run as a native app on multiple platforms, is opensource and written on cpp (with QT for
the ui). You can find it [here in the github repo](https://github.com/agudpp/alias).

The goal of the app is to provide a fast (very fast) access to information (`content`) using tags. There are many possible
use cases, I use it daily to access code snippets or commands I use it to often (note that you can do this commands with the `alias` feature from unix system, somehow that was the inspiration for this, still not exatly the same use cases).

I also use it as a place for taking notes, that I now I will be using them soon, or I will need at some point in the future and I do not want to forget, tagging it with whatever it comes to my mind that I know I will remember (for example, the person who send me a link, or topic the link is about, etc).

Some other examples are, storing personal information like:
- urls to projects or in general
- banking information (IBAN / etc).
- mobile phone or address.
- snippets of code I frequently use or commands 
- etc.

I'm not inventing something magical in here, there are trillon ways of accomplishing the same (accessing to information), for example, you can open a notes app or store all the information in a simple and single .txt file. Still, in my personal experience, I felt annoyed when spending some time to get that information (some time = 15 seconds). I have to say I have very bad memory :).

The goal of alias is to access the content super fast (in less than 3 seconds), without interrumping your current flow (writing a message, writing code, doing any task), just writing few characters.


# Current state

- Currently the app works on linux and windows, mac is still in progress (since I do not have one). 
- The apps looks (very very very) ugly, but is functional (there is **A LOT OF ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT**  here (and I would love to find collaborators :)).
- The documentation on how to use it is poor and mainly for devs, but the app is actually intended for more general purposes (any thing that is kind of repetitive or takes time to access it or it is annoying to do it, can be solved with the app).
- The app supports encrypted content, so it requires a password to access (sensitive content).
- ...

And there are many many many ideas more to implement:

- There are many ideas for improving the `content` types, currently is just text (copy text to clipboard) or execute commands. It can be many other things, like template generation content (handy for autocode generation, or generic messages generation, etc), rich text (markdown, or lists), `TODO` content type, etc.
- There are other ideas to expand to mobile (longstory)
- Support cloud storage / auto sync
- ....
 
I'm interested on understanding more or different use cases, and I'm sure this would make the feature list much bigger.


# Feedback / Join

I'm using the app on daily / hourly basis, and I find it super useful, but of course, not everybody is the same, so I would like to share it to the world and get some feedback, and better yet, people who wants to join and make the app much better and powerful :).

Salute
